# Description
A simple database migration and versioning tool. Basically, it works by maintaining change logs in the
database, and incrementally updating the database using user supplied change scripts. You can craft the
change scripts manually or use some tools (e.g., mysql workbench, etc. ) to generate them for you. Then,
you can add the database schema (tables, views, indexes, constraints, etc. ) exported by baseline and
these change scripts into your version control system such as git.

# Use Case
Typically, when you use a database-first development approach, your team want to keep local development databases and want to keep track of the changes collaboratively w/ each other, then baseline could help.
However, baseline also supports other scenarios such as you team (probably a dedicated database team) is maintaining a shared database for development, you want to apply the changes to the database in production, etc. 

# Install & Usage
Baseline is a CLI tool that you could install via npm as below:
```bash
  npm install -g node-baseline
```

_Note: this tool requires nodejs version 4.0.0 or above._

Then, type `baseline --help` to see how to use it as below:

```
Usage: baseline <command> [options]

Commands:
  init  init the baselines of configured databases
  up    migrate the configured databases up from the baselines

Options:
  --config, -c  the database configurations to use with baseline
  --force, -f   used with init command, force init if a baseline already exists
  --log-level   logging level: verbose (default), debug, info, warn, error
  --help        show help information
  --version     Show version number

Copyright 2015, MIT licensed.
```

You have to create a configuration file for the databases that you want to add baseline support to.
Basically, you can use `--config` option or `.baselinerc` in the working directory to specify the required configurations. The config file support _YAML_, _JSON_ and _node module_ formats whichever way you choose for that. See the sample configuration files below.

## Init
First, use the `init` command to integrate your database with baseline, e.g.,
```bash
baseline init --config /path/to/the/config/file
```
or without the `--config` option if there is a `.baselinerc` configuration file in the directory you're calling baseline:
```bash
baseline init
```

When the init command executed successfully, baseline will create the `_change_log` table in the database and then export all the necessary schema of the database, including tables, indexes, constraints, views, etc., and an empty `changes` directory where your change scripts reside. All these files will go to the corresponding sub directories under the configured `rootPath` scoped by the database name. For example:
```
temp/db/test
├── changes
├── tables
│   ├── sales.sql
│   ├── attrs.sql
│   └── costs.sql
└── views
    ├── costs_view.sql
    └── sales_view.sql
```
where,  _temp/db/_ is the configured `rootPath`, and _test_ is the name of the database integrated w/ baseline.

## Migrate
You can add some change scripts to the `changes` directory (as mentioned above). The file names of the change scripts should follow the convention `major(\d{2}).minor(\d{2}).patch(\d{4}).sql`, and be increased sequentially,  e.g, `01.00.0001.sql`, `01.00.0002.sql`, ... `01.01.0001.sql`, etc.

Then, issue the `up` command below to apply the changes to the configured databases:
```bash
baseline up --config /path/to/the/config/file
```
or without the `--config` option if there is a `.baselinerc` configuration file in the directory you're calling baseline:
```bash
baseline up
```

## Rebase
By rebasing, baseline will treat the current database as a fresh new one and re-integrate w/ it from a new start point. You can rebase the database at any time you want by using the `init` command with `--force	` option:
```bash
baseline init --config /path/to/the/config/file --force
```
or without the `--config` option if there is a `.baselinerc` configuration file in the directory you're calling baseline:
```bash
baseline init --force
```

# Collaborate
baseline is designed and implemented with team collaboration in mind. The typical workflow is:
- A integrates the database w/ baseline by `init`
- A commits all the necessary stuff generated by baseline to the git repository
- B pulls the stuffs committed by A
- B issues `baseline init` to create the database w/ baseline integrated
- A migrates up the database using change scripts by `up`
- A commits the change scripts to the git repository
- B pulls the change scripts committed by A
- B issues `baseline up` to apply the changes from A
- ...

However, there's a caveat here that when before one developer add the change scripts to the `changes` directory, he/she must first pull the change scripts from others first, and then add and test the changes scripts before commit.

# Sample config files

## YAML
```yaml
rootPath: ./temp/db
host: 127.0.0.1
port: 3306
user: root
password: secret
dialect: mysql
databases:
  - name: test1
  - name: test2
    dialect: oracle
    user: user
    password: password

```

## JSON
```json
{
  "rootPath": "./temp/db",
  "host": "127.0.0.1",
  "port": 3306,
  "user": "root",
  "password": "secret",
  "dialect": "mysql",
  "databases": [
    { "name": "test1" },
    { "name": "test2", "dialect": "oracle", "user": "user", "password": "..." }
  ]
}
```


## Node Module
```js
var path = require('path');
module.exports = {
  rootPath: path.join(__dirname, 'temp/db'),
  host: '127.0.0.1',
  port: 3306,
  user: 'root',
  password: 'secret',
  dialect: 'mysql',
  databases: [
    { name: 'test1' },
    { name: 'test2', dialect: 'oracle', user: 'user', password: '...' }
  ]
};

```
